Notes from Core working group call: Oct. 4, 2024 (#4189)
tock/tock: doc/wg/core/notes/core-notes-2024-10-04.md

 * Lawrence: Were people using the ABI directly in Tock 1.0 instead of a wrapper like libtock-c?
 * Leon: People were using libtock-c, but drivers there were varied in what they did
 * Leon: Overall, I do think more semantic information is useful in this interface. So a pointer versus number return result would be valuable
 * Lawrence: We'd actually end up with a pointer plus usize for allow returns. I'm a little worried that it would explode into a bunch of new return options
 * Johnathan: For a Tock 3.0, we could even have a bitfield that describes the types returned
 * Leon: I am not so worried about the explosion, because we can add them lazily as needed
 * Lawrence: If they're Rust enums, is there a danger that the kernel translates incorrectly? Does it just transmute, or does it check?
 * Leon: It checks.
 * Lawrence: And there's an assumption that the user trusts the kernel to return a valid enum
 * Johnathan: Is this about the different types the kernel can return? That seems to be expansible in the future?
 * Lawrence: Yes. I was just worried that the types of enums in userland and kernel could be out-of-sync

>  * Johnathan: There's certainly checking in libtock-rs right now

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Johnathan: `libtock-rs` certainly assumes there may be new syscall return variants in the future
```

 * Lawrence: Mostly this could be backwards compatible to start, and CHERI could just live in a branch until ready
 * Leon: I do also think there are a lot of things going on in your PR. Metaptr and raw pointer and things
 * Lawrence: I think I'll be reducing those
 * Leon: I don't mean reducing variants, I mean understanding the point of each type for drivers
 * Lawrence: For CHERI I can be specific. We do want to be more generic though. For CHERI, at any time, userspace might need to be able to access an object at a location, rather than just sending an address. So an authenticated pointer is bigger than u32, but just an address, like a buffer they already own, is usize.
 * Leon: Do you really ever want addresses without access rights?
 * Lawrence: Maybe the free interface. Or locations of buffers that applications already own
 * Johnathan: About metaptr, does it represent capabilities that are pointers only? Aren't there other types of capabilities?
 * Lawrence: I'm also using it for the register file, so any capabilities.

>  * Johnathan: So it's more than just pointers. Okay. The other thing I'm puzzled on, in non-CHERI you're relying on the cast to copy information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Johnathan: So it's more than just pointers. Okay. The other thing that confused me, in non-CHERI you're relying on the cast to copy provenance information, correct?
```

 * Lawrence: I wonder if I could rewrite that wrapper layer with strict provenance in mind.
 * Johnathan: I used `*mut ()` in libtock-rs for similar things. Maybe I'm thinking too strictly about it.

>  * Lawrence: Maybe I should change to strict provenance. Would that cause issues across the kernel?

Reviewer: @LawrenceEsswood I think you were talking specifically about the strict provenance APIs here, correct? Asking because that slight difference makes my response make sense.

Reviewer 2: I think we did chat about the strict provenance APIs here.

For whatever reason MetaPtr is wrapping a usize even though it could just as easily wrap `*const ()`, and derive from `core::ptr::null()` when it needs to cast from usize to mash a usize into a pointer for argument marshalling reasons.

It would, at the very least, make using the strict provenance API trivial if/when Tock opts in.

Reviewer: Okay:

```suggestion
 * Lawrence: Maybe I should change to strict provenance APIs. Would that cause issues across the kernel?
```
